Solr has multiple configuration files located in the Solr Home directory. These files are primarily in XML format, but JSON may be used for programmatic access via APIs.

# Solr Home

Solr requires a home directory to operate, typically located at `server/solr` when first installed. However, this location may vary, such as when using `bin/solr start -e cloud`, which sets the home directory to `example/cloud`.

The home directory holds crucial configuration information and serves as the storage location for Solr's index. Its structure differs between standalone mode and SolrCloud mode.

In standalone mode, the home directory includes:

```
<solr-home-directory>/
   solr.xml
   core_name1/
      core.properties
      conf/
         solrconfig.xml
         managed-schema
      data/
   core_name2/
      core.properties
      conf/
         solrconfig.xml
         managed-schema
      data/
```
Each core directory contains core properties, configuration files (solrconfig.xml, managed-schema), and data.4


In SolrCloud mode, the home directory comprises:

```
<solr-home-directory>/
   solr.xml
   core_name1/
      core.properties
      data/
   core_name2/
      core.properties
      data/
```
Each core directory contains core properties and data.
While there may be additional files, these are the main ones to focus on for Solr configuration.


> In SolrCloud mode, you don't directly set the solrconfig.xml and schema.xml files as in standalone mode. Instead, you configure collections and their schemas using the Solr Admin UI or APIs. Collections are associated with configuration sets containing the necessary configuration files. Managed schemas are commonly used, adapting automatically to changes in indexed documents. The Schema API allows dynamic schema modifications. SolrCloud provides dynamic configuration management, enabling changes to the cluster's configuration without node restarts.











